 microorganisms play an important role in degradation of xenobiotics, and maintaining of steady state concentrations of chemicals in the environment.
 the aim of the presented study was the development of a model for measuring possible immunotoxic effects of chemicals, degradation products, xenobiotics and metabolites by these chemicals on the immune system.
 scientific literature is replete with studies of xenobiotics in surface waters, including a recent national usgs survey of endocrine disrupting chemicals; however, biological significance of these chemical data is in question since chemical bioavailability is largely unknown and biological events may be induced by undetected chemicals and varying ecological conditions (i.e., total nitrogen and phosphorus).
 xenobiotic, therefore, refers to an organic compound that mimics natural biochemicals that are essential for life, but which have characteristics about them that are strange and unnatural.
 research is desperately needed to determine the biochemical reactions in soil that transform these xenobiotic compounds to their mineral components.
  phytotransformationin the case of organic pollutants, such as pesticides, explosives, solvents, industrial chemicals, and other xenobiotic substances, certain plants, such as cannas, render these substances non-toxic by their metabolism.
 immune function may be significantly altered following occupational, inadvertent or therapeutic exposure to chemically diverse xenobiotics.
 by identifying pesticides and apicultural medicines that are substrates and inhibitors of xenobiotic transporters we prioritize the testing of those chemical combinations most likely to result in adverse interactions.
 regarding all aspects of xenobiotic metabolism, thorough chemical identification of metabolites is required.
 it is intended as method to screen rapidly and qualitatively the principal patterns of oxidized xenobiotic metabolites, and to produce metabolites of concern on a larger scale for thorough chemical identification.
a xenobiotic is a chemical which is found in an organism but which is not normally produced or expected to be present in it. 
natural compounds can also become xenobiotics if they are taken up by another organism, such as the uptake of natural human hormones by fish found downstream of sewage treatment plant outfalls, or the chemical defenses produced by some organisms as protection against predators.
xenobiotics are any chemical compounds that are found in a living organism, but which are foreign to that organism, in the sense that it does not normally produce the compound or consume it as part of its diet. 
